# Redmine Git Hosting Plugin (v0.6.2)

A ChiliProject / Redmine plugin which makes configuring your own Git hosting easy.

This plugin allows straightforward management
of Gitolite and associated public keys, the Git daemon, and integrates code from Scott Schacon's "grack" utility
to provide Git Smart HTTP access.  Git repositories are automatically created when the repository is created in
Redmine.  There is also an option to automatically create a Git repository for a project, when the project is created.
Caching functionality is also implemented to speed page-load times for viewing Git repositories.

Release Notes are available off the wiki: https://github.com/jbox-web/redmine_git_hosting/wiki/Release-Notes.

## Compatibility

As the time of this writing, it should be compatible with the following versions:

* **Redmine:** This plugin should work with Redmine branches 1.1-Stable through 2.3.1 (latest stable), including sub-versions.

* **ChiliProject:** This plugin should work with ChiliProject 2.0.0 through 3.3.x. It has been successfully used with at least 2.0.x, 2.5.x, 2.7.x, and 3.0.x, and 3.3.x releases.

* **Gitolite:** This plugin is compatible with most versions of Gitolite including versions 3.x.

* **Ruby:** This plugin is compatible with Ruby 1.8.7, 1.9.3 and 2.0

There is a known issue with Gitolite 3 and HTTP access (https://github.com/gitlabhq/gitlabhq/issues/1495)

The trick is to add these lines at the begining of the file ```/<git user home dir>/.gitolite/hooks/common/update```

    #!/usr/bin/perl

    BEGIN {
        exit 0 if exists $ENV{GL_BYPASS_UPDATE_HOOK};
    }

## Required gems

In order to use this plugin you must have the following gems installed:

* lockfile

* inifile

* net-ssh

## Configuration Strategy

This plugin allows Redmine to communicate with Gitolite via **sudo**.
You must configure your sudoers file to allow your Redmine user to run commands as Git user, and your Git user
to run commands as the Redmine user. Add these two lines to your sudoers file (run visudo to edit this file) :

    redmine        ALL=(git)      NOPASSWD:ALL
    git            ALL=(redmine)  NOPASSWD:ALL

This assumes **redmine** is your Redmine user, and **git** is your Git user (the user Gitolite is installed under).
This will allow **redmine** to execute commands as **git** without prompting for a password and **git** to execute commands
as **redmine** without prompting for a password.  No other access (e.g. no root access, permissions to run commands
as other users) are granted by these lines. These lines are only there to facilitate communication between the
Redmine user and the Git user, no other users, keeping the system secure.

Also, the *requiretty* sudo setting can prevent the plugin from working correctly. Several users have reported this
problem on CentOS. Check the *Defaults* directive in the sudoers file to see if this setting has been set. You address
the problem by either removing *requiretty* from the *Defaults* directive, or by adding the following
lines below the original *Defaults* directive to remove this requirement for only the two necessary users :

    Defaults:git      !requiretty
    Defaults:redmine  !requiretty

Again, this assumes **redmine** is your Redmine user, and **git** is the user Gitolite is installed under.

As of the most recent set of patches, this plugin is compatible with running multiple Redmine installations on the same server, each
with the same *or* different Gitolite users/repositories. The later configuration (multiple Redmine installations, each with a different
Gitolite installation) is particularly useful for a web-hosting scenario with independent developers.

## Step-By-Step configuration instructions

**(1)** Install Gitolite. If possible, use Gitolite version >= 2.0.3, so that the plugin will be able to
recover from a variety of failures that mess up administrative access to the Gitolite repository (the plugin will utilize **gl-admin-push**
to fixup admin access in these circumstances). Note that the plugin will work with earlier versions of Gitolite; however,
it will not be able to recover from as many faults (it will attempt to use **gl-setup** which doesn't work quite as well).

It is important that this key not have a passphrase set.
*Further, it is very important that this ssh key be unique and not used for anything other than administrative access, i.e. should not be used by
any user as their access key.*

**(2)** If you want to enable anonymous access to your repositories via the git:// protocol you will need to
install the git-daemon.  The details of this are beyond the scope of the tutorial as well (and again there
are lots of available guides out there).  This step is optional -- if you don't want to enable anonymous
access you can skip it.

**(3)** Run visudo (you will need root permissions to run this) and set the necessary lines in your sudoers file,
listed above. Assuming Redmine is run as **redmine** and Gitolite is installed as **git**, you need to add
this to your sudoers file:

    redmine        ALL=(git)      NOPASSWD:ALL
    git            ALL=(redmine)  NOPASSWD:ALL

If you have the *requiretty* set in the *Defaults* directive of your sudoers file (it is there by default in CentOS) either remove it or add the following
lines below the original directive:

    Defaults:git     !requiretty
    Defaults:redmine !requiretty

*Note: with at least some versions of Ubuntu, you must place any additions to the sudoers file at the end, otherwise the line starting with "admin ..." ends up
negating these additions -- probably to your great frustration.*

**(5)** Clone the redmine_git_hosting plugin into the vendor/plugins subdirectory of your Redmine/ChiliProject
root directory:

    cd REDMINE_ROOT/vendor/plugins
    git clone https://github.com/jbox-web/redmine_git_hosting.git
    cd ../..

If you use Redmine 2.x, you can find the plugin folder directly under the REDMINE_ROOT. If it is not existent, create it with

    cd REDMINE_ROOT && mkdir plugins

You can then clone the repository in there.

**(6)** Run the rake db:migrate\_plugins task to update the database. You will need to do this once for every
rails environment you have configured (e.g. production, development, testing). For the production environment, run the following:

    RAILS_ENV=production rake redmine:plugins:migrate

*Note that you should perform a migrate\_plugins operation whenever you update the plugin.*

**(7)** Make a decision about whether or not you want the plugin to be able to modify scripts in the scripts directory on the fly. If you elect to prevent
the plugin from modifying the scripts directory, you will be unable to modify certain settings from the plugin settings page (as discussed in
the "Executable Scripts" section, below). You have three options:

* **Script Directory Writeable:** The simplest configuration is to allow the scripts directory to be written by the plugin. Consider this the default
configuration. In this case, scripts will be regenerated "on-the-fly" by the plugin when certain settings change. For this option, execute the following task
(assuming that Redmine is executing as **redmine**):

    rake redmine_git_hosting:install_scripts RAILS_ENV=production WEB_USER=redmine

* **Script Directory Read-Only:** Alternatively, you can choose to make the scripts directory read-only. You might choose this option if you wish to keep
scripts in the default directory (i.e. RAILS\_ROOT/vendor/plugins/redmine\_git\_hosting/bin), but do not want to make this directory writeable by the user running
Redmine. Be forewarned that you will not be able to change some of the settings on the settings page if scripts directory is not writeable by the user running Redmine.

    rake redmine_git_hosting:install_scripts RAILS_ENV=production WEB_USER=redmine READ_ONLY=true

* **SELinux Configuration:** A final option is appropriate if you wish to utilize SELinux to protect your installation. Although more details are given in the "SELinux"
section, below, the simplest SELinux configuration involves executing the following command (which will also installs the scripts read-only, making some settings unchangeable) :

    rake selinux:install RAILS_ENV=production WEB_USER=redmine

Note that your selected rake task must assign the user running Redmine (e.g. "redmine") as the owner of the new scripts directory.

**(8)** Unless you want to access your repositories exclusively via Smart HTTP, users will need to set apublic key to connect via SSH.
To do this, open a browser, login to ChiliProject/Redmine and follow the "My Account" link in the upper right-hand corner of the page.
The right-hand column contains controls for adding your public key(s).

Keys should be unique, that is, the keys you set in ChiliProject / Redmine should not already exist in the Gitolite repo. In particular,
**do not re-use** the key you set as the Gitolite admin key.

**(9)** The plugin is now configured, but you may now want to set some additional settings on the
Administration => Plugins => Redmine Git Hosting Plugin page.

## Configuration variables

* The **gitSciptDir** variable indicates which directory will hold customized scripts. When *relative*, this variable indicates a directory relative to the
root of the plugin. The default value of ' ' (empty), means that scripts will be written to 'REDMINE_ROOT/vendor/plugins/redmine_git_hosting/bin'. *This
default location should be sufficient for most installations.*

    An *absolute* path can be utilized to place scripts anywhere in the filesystem.  For instance, if you would prefer for the scripts to be placed in the /tmp directory
    to mimic the behavior of prior versions of plugin, you can set **gitScriptDir** to the same directory as **gitTemporaryDir** (i.e. '/tmp/redmine_git_hosting/' by
    default). Note that the script directory must be executable (thereby preventing scripts from being placed in the /tmp directory some systems).

    If non-empty, the **gitScriptDir** path should end in a path separator, e.g. '/'.

* The **gitUser** is the user under which Gitolite is installed.  This plugin can handle hosts with more than one Gitolite repository (each with a different
value for **gitUser**).

* The **httpServer** variable should be set to the hostname which will be used to access your Redmine site, e.g. www.my-own-personal-git-host-server.com.  This
variable may optionally include a port using the ':portnum' syntax, i.e. www.my-own-person-git-host-server.com:8000.  Unlike earlier versions of
this plugin, this variable should *not* include the path to your Redmine root.

* The **sshServerLocalPort** variable should be set to the port which will be used to access the Gitolite repositories via ssh. In most configurations, the **sshServerLocalPort**
variable will be the standard SSH port '22'.

If you followed the above directions you will not need to modify the **gitoliteIdentityFile** or **gitoliteIdentityPublicKeyFile** variables -- these specify
the path to the private/public key files for accessing the Gitolite admin repository.  Further, although you can change the following three variables,
their default values provide for a very reasonable installation:

* The **gitConfigFile** parameter specifies the Gitolite configuration file used by Redmine for Redmine-managed repositories. This file (or path) is relative
to the Gitolite conf/ directory. The default value of "gitolite.conf" is sufficient for most configurations.  If you choose to change this parameter, you will need
to place a corresponding "include" statement in "gitolite.conf". Note that **gitConfigHasAdminKey** may be set to false for a non-standard "gitolite.conf" file.
When this parameter is false, the plugin will assume that the administrative key is in the main "gitolite.conf" file; when true, the plugin will attempt to maintain
the administrative key in the Redmine-managed Gitolite config file.

* The **gitRepositoryBasePath** is the path *relative to the Git user root* where the repositories are located. This should always be non-empty and should end
in a file separator, e.g. '/'. Since Gitolite always uses repositories/ as the default place for repositories you probably shouldn't have to change this.

* The **gitRedmineSubdir** is an optional subdirectory under the *gitRepositoryBasePath* which can be used for all plugin-managed repositories. Its default value
is the empty string (no special subdirectory).  If you choose to set it, make sure that the resulting path ends in a file separator, e.g. '/'.

* The **gitRepositoryHierarchy** variable is a boolean value which denotes whether or not the plugin-managed repositories are placed into a hierarchy that
mirrors the project hierarchy. Its value is either 'true' (default) or 'false'.

* Finally for versions of Redmine with more than one repository per project (i.e. Redmine 1.4+), the **gitRepositoryIdentUnique** variable determines both
whether or not repository identifiers must be unique across all projects and, if not, the format of repository paths.  In particular, when **gitRepositoryIdentUnique**
is 'true', repository identifiers must be unique across all projects (and cannot match the identifiers of projects either). Path names are identical to those
of pre-1.4 versions of this plugin. If, on the other hand, the **gitRepositoryidentUnique** is set to 'false', then repository identifiers do not have to be
unique across projects (although they still cannot have the same value as project identifiers). In this case, all repositories with non-blank identifiers (i.e. non-default
repositories) have the project identifier appended to their path.

As an example of the significance of the previous three variables, suppose that project-3 is a child of project-2 which is a child of project-1. Assume
**gitRepositoryBasePath** == "repository/" and **gitRedmineSubdir** == "projects".  When **gitRepositoryHierarchy** is 'true', project-3.git will be stored in
repository/projects/project-1/project-2/project-3.git, which will further be reflected in the ssh access URL of repository/projects/project-1/project-2/project-3.git. In
contrast, when **gitRepositoryHierarchy** is 'false', project-3.git will be stored directly under repository/projects -- regardless of the number and identity of
any parents that it might have.

In Redmine 1.4+, if **gitRepositoryIdentUnique** is set to 'false', then secondary repositories for project-3 will additionally
have paths of the form repository/projects/project-1/project-2/project-3/repo-1.git (when **gitRepositoryHierarchy** is 'true').  Note that the top of the settings page
(Administration => Plugins => Redmine Git Hosting Plugin configuration page) provides information about how your chosen configuration affects the storage locations and
URLs for accessing projects.

* The **Lock Wait Time** represents the amount of time that the plugin will wait in attempting to acquire its internal synchronization lock before giving
up.  You probably will not need to change this value.

* The **Temporary Directory** parameter points at a temporary directory for locks and Gitolite administrative configurations. This path should end in
a path separator, e.g. '/'.  For a system in which multiple redmine sites point at the same Gitolite repository (i.e. share a single git user), it
is very important that all of said sites share the same temporary directory (so that locking works properly). You should probably just leave this
parameter with its default value.

* **Automatically Initialize Git Repositories For New Projects** can be enabled to automatically create a new git repository every time
you create a new project.  You won't have to create the project, and then create the repository -- this will be done all it one step.  However, if
you have both git and svn (or hg, or cvs etc.) repositories, this may cause problems so it is disabled by default.

* The **Default Git Daemon Mode**, **Default Smart HTTP Mode**, and **Default Notify CIA Mode** settings denote the default settings for these parameters on
new repositories.

* **Delete Git Repository When Project Is Deleted** can be enabled to let this plugin control repository deletion as well as repository creation.  By default,
this feature is disabled and when a repository is deleted in ChiliProject / Redmine, it is not deleted in Gitolite.  This is a safety feature to prevent
the accidental loss of data. If this feature is enabled, the safety is turned off and the repository files will be deleted when the Project/Repository is
deleted in ChiliProject/Redmine.  Note, however, that even when this feature is enabled, deleted repositories are placed into a "recycle_bin" for a configurable
amount of time (defaulting to 24 hours) and can be recovered by recreating the project in Redmine with the same Identifier. Details are placed in the log.

* The **Git Recycle Bin Base Path** is the path *relative to the Git user root* where deleted repositories are placed.  This path should end in a path separator,
e.g. '/'.  Deleted repositories are kept here for up to **gitRecycleExpireTime** hours (configurable, defaults to 24.0 hours).

* **Show Checkout URLs** can be disabled to hide the git URL bar in the repository tab.  It is enabled by default.

See below in the "Caching" section of this README for more information on caching and how the caching variables should be configured.

## Resynchronization of Gitolite configuration

Whenever a Redmine `fetch_changesets()` operation is executed (i.e. `http://REDMINE_ROOT/sys/fetch_changesets?key=xxx`), this plugin will check the
Gitolite keydir and configuration file for consistency. It will correct any errors that it finds. Further, regular execution of a fetch\_changesets operation
will make sure that repositories placed in the recycle\_bin (during delete operations) will be expired and removed. Since there still seem to be some
phantom synchronization problems, it is recommended that you execute `fetch_changesets()` regularly (every 15 to 30 minutes).

Two rake tasks can additionally be used for resynchronization (although these are redundant with executing `fetch_changesets()` through other means).

**(1)** To fixup the gitolite configuration file, fix errors, and delete expired files in the recycle\_bin, execute:

    rake redmine_git_hosting:update_repositories RAILS_ENV=production

**(2)** To perform all the above operations while at the same time fetching changesets for all repositories, execute:

    rake redmine_git_hosting:fetch_changesets RAILS_ENV=production

**Note that it is very important that these commands be run as *redmine* **
(The same is true of any `fetch_changesets()` operation initiated through the command line or from the cron daemon).

## Interaction with non-Redmine Gitolite users

This plugin respects Gitolite repositories that are managed outside of Redmine or managed by both Redmine and non-Redmine users:

* When performing a *fetch_changesets()* operation, this plugin will delete and reestablish all keys that are of the form "redmine_",
  since it considers these to be under its exclusive control.  A special token, called "redmine_dummy_key", is used as a placeholder when no access
  is granted for a given repository.
* Keys other than "redmine_*" are left untouched and can be in projects by themselves or mixed in with projects managed by redmine.
* When a Redmine-managed project is deleted (with the *Delete Git Repository When Project Is Deleted* option enabled), its corresponding git repository
  *will not be deleted/recycled* if there are non-Redmine keys in the gitolite.conf file.

## A Note About PATH variables

One major source of issues with this plugin is that Redmine needs to be able to run both *sudo* and *git* commands. Specifically, these programs need to be in one of the directories specified by
the PATH variable, in your Rails environment. This requirement has been known to cause problems, particularly when installing on FreeBSD.

To address this problem in the Apache + Passenger configuration, one possible solution is to do the following:

**(1)** Create a new file: /usr/local/bin/ruby18env, with the following code, modifying the PATH shown below to include all relevant directories:

    #!/bin/sh
    export PATH="/usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin"
    [path_to_your_ruby_executable, e.g. /usr/local/bin/ruby18] $*

**(2)** Make this file executable:

    chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/ruby18env

**(3)** In your httpd.conf file, replace (or add) your PassengerRuby directive with:

    PassengerRuby /usr/local/bin/ruby18env

Note that this may be an issue for configurations other than Apache + Passenger, but as this is one of the most common configurations, instructions for that are provided above.

Thanks to user Tronix117 for helping to track down this issue and provide a solution for Apache + Passenger.

## Placement and Modification of Executable Scripts

As of the most recent version of the plugin, you may place the executable scripts anywhere in the filesystem.  The default location of the scripts
is set with **gitScriptDir** == ' ' => 'REDMINE_ROOT/vendor/plugins/redmine_git_hosting/bin'.  This is a good location, especially if you have multiple
simultaneous Redmine installations on the same host, since scripts are customized to each installation. Thus, we recommend that you consider keeping the
default placement. In this location, some maintainers may not wish to allow the plugin to re-write the scripts during execution -- hence the options
to make scripts read-only, as described in step (8) of the installation instructions, above. Further, when SELinux is installed, the scripts are not
writeable by default (because of SELinux tags), since changing them could be construed to be a security hole.

When the script directory is not write-able by the user running Redmine, you also cannot alter four of the settings on the settings page (since their
alteration would require the regeneration of scripts). These values are: *gitScriptDir*, *gitUser*, *gitoliteIdentifyFile*, and
*gitoliteIdentityPublicKeyFile*. The settings page will make the fact that you cannot alter these values clear by marking that as '*[Cannot
Change in Current Configuration]*'.

The simplest way to change these values after the fact is to (1) remove the old scripts, (2) alter the parameters on the settings page (after refreshing the
settings page), then (3) reinstalling scripts as discussed in step (8) of the installation instructions.  Scripts can be removed with:

    rake redmine_git_hosting:remove_scripts RAILS_ENV=production

An alternate option is to alter these four settings in the init.rb file, then execute:

    rake redmine_git_hosting:restore_defaults RAILS_ENV=production

This command will install the new values in the database.  You should follow up by reinstalling the scripts (since their values depend on the altered
parameter(s)).  If you are moving the location of the *gitScriptDir*, you might want to remove the old scripts before executing 'restore_defaults'
as described above.

## Deployment Credentials

As of version 0.4.6x, this plugin provides deployment credentials on a per-repository basis. These credentials are combinations of a public key and access
permissions (R or RW+) which are attached directly to a repository rather than by attaching users to repositories. Deployment credentials may be
added to a repository through the repository settings interface. They may be added by anyone who is a manager for the project or by the administrator.

Public keys used in this way are called "deploy keys".  They are owned by the user who created them and may be edited on the user's public_key page (which is under
"my account" for individual users).  Since keys have unique names (per creator), they may be reused in multiple deployment credentials (in multiple repositories),
simply by selecting them from the pulldown menu on the "deployment credentials create" dialog box.

One typical use-case would be for all deploy keys to be owned by the administrator and attached selectively to various repositories.  Note that the "deployment
credentials create" dialog is actually a convenience dialog in that it allows the simultaneous creation of both a deploy key and deployment credential in a single step,
even suggesting a name for the deployment credential, with the eye to deployments that have a separate deploy key for each repository.  Reusing a deploy key in
another credential is a simple matter of selecting the key from a drop-down menu.

## Additional Post-Receive Hooks

As of version 0.5.1x, this plugin supports the execution of additional
post-receive hooks in repositories managed with it. To get updated
about new data in the repository, the plugin installs a post-receive
hook. If you want additional post-receive hooks to be run, you have to
decide whether a hook should be a local or a global one. Local extra
hooks will only be run for the repository they are installed in.
Global extra hooks will be run for *every* gitolite repository.

To create local hooks, place them in a directory with the name
"post-receive.local.d" within the repository's hook directory. If a
file in this folder is marked as executable, the plugin's hook will
execute it.

In a standard gitolite install with a repository called "test", this
will be a valid path of an additional local post-receive hook:

    /home/gitolite/repositories/test.git/hooks/post-receive.local.d/do-something

If the "do-something" file is executable, the plugin will pick it up.

To create global hooks, place an executable in a folder called
"post-receive.d" that lives in a hook directory of a gitolite
repository. All these "post-receive.d" directories are actually links
to one common "post-receive.d" directory within the gitolite
installation.

In a standard gitolite install with a repository called "test", this
will be a valid path of an additional global post-receive hook:

    /home/gitolite/repositories/test.git/hooks/post-receive.d/do-something

Again, the "do-something" file needs to be executable, to be picked
up. All other repositories will have the "do-something" hook as well.

Note that all additional hooks get passed the same STDIN stream as the
plugin's hook got.

## Post-Receive URLs

As of version 0.4.6x, this plugin supports the inclusion of GitHub-style Post-Receive URLs.  Once added, a post-receive URL will be notified when new changes
are pushed to the repository.  Two versions of this functionality are available: (1) either a GitHub-style POST operation will include json-encoded information
about the updated branch or (2) an empty GET request will be issued to the given URL.  Post-Receive URLs may be added from the repository settings page.

## Automatic Mirror Updates

As of version 0.4.0, this plugin can automatically push updates to repository mirrors when new changes are pushed to the repository.  Mirrors
must grant access to the public key defined in the gitolite_admin_id_rsa.pub public key file, which is displayed for convenience in the
repository settings tab.

Note that 0.4.6x introduced the ability to selectively push branches to the mirror (using the git-push refspec mechanism) rather than mirroring all branches and tags.
To utilize this feature, simply select a mirror update mode of "Force Update Remote" or "Fast Forward (unforced)" instead of the default "Complete Mirroring" in the
mirror create/edit dialog.  More options will then become available.


## Notification to CIA.vc

As of version 0.4.0, this plugin can notify CIA.vc when changes are pushed to the repository.  The project identifier on CIA.vc must match the
project identifier specified in ChiliProject/Redmine exactly


## Smart HTTP Functionality

Smart HTTP is an efficient way of communicating with the git server over http/https available in git client version 1.6.6 and newer.
A more detailed description of what Smart HTTP is all about can be found at: http://progit.org/2010/03/04/smart-http.html

This plugin allows you to automatically enable Smart HTTP access to your repositories.  It is highly recommended that you
enable Smart HTTP access only via HTTPS -- without encryption this is very insecure.  However, you will require a valid SSL
certificate for this to work properly, otherwise you will get permission errors.  If you want to enable (insecure) access via
unencrypted HTTP go to the repository settings tab and select "HTTPS and HTTP" under the "Git Smart HTTP" tab.

Where a password is required, this is your Redmine user password.

Once Smart HTTP is enabled no further configuration is necessary.  You will be able to clone from/to the HTTP[S] URL specified in
the URL bar in the Project/Repository tab.

Also note that you will need to ensure that Basic Auth headers are being passed properly to Rails for this to work properly.  In Apache with mod_fcgid this may
mean you need to add "Passheader Authorization" into the virtual host configuration file.

Further, if you are proxying requests through a third-party (such as Nginx), you need to make sure that you pass the protocol information onto Redmine so that it can
distinguish between HTTP and HTTPS.  One way to do this is to use the X-Forwarded-Proto header (which should be set to 'https' when https is in use from the client
to the proxy).  On Nginx, you can do this with an "include proxy.include" statement in your configuration.

## Using the Git Daemon

In order to export repositories via the Git daemon (i.e. with URLs of the form 'git://'), you must first install this daemon and give it access to the gitolite
repositories (outside the scope of this README).  Once you do so, then control of *which* repositories are exported depends on two things: (1) the setting of
the *public* flag for the project and (2) the setting of the *GitDaemon* parameter in the project's repository settings.  A repository will be exported via the Git daemon
only if its corresponding project is public *and* its **GitDaemon** flag is enabled.  The redmine_git_hosting plugin handles such repositories by including a
special "daemon" key in the gitolite.conf file.  Presence of this key, in turn, causes Gitolite to insert a "git-daemon-export-ok" flag at the top-level of
the corresponding repository; this flag is interpreted by the git-daemon as a sign to export the repository.

Note that the act of changing a project from public to private will set the **GitDaemon** flag to false automatically (to prevent accidental export of the project
via the git-daemon later).

## Caching Options

As of version 0.3.0 and later this plugin includes code for caching output of the git command, which is called
to display the details of the git repository.  Redmine/ChiliProject by default calls git directly every time
this information is needed.  This can result in relatively long page load times.

This plugin caches the output of git commands to dramatically improve page load times, roughly a 10x speed increase.
On a 1GB VM running Ubuntu 11.04 median repository page load times dropped from 2300ms to 180ms.  Testing was done
with ab utility in the apache2-utils package.

There are three configurable caching parameters in the plugins settings page: Max Cache Elements, Max Cache Element
Size and Max Cache Time.

* The **Max Cache Elements** is the maximum number of git commands for which to cache the output.

* The **Max Cache Element Size** is the maximum size of the git output to cache.   Anything above this size won't be cached,
and git will be called directly every time this command is run.

* The **Max Cache Time** is the maximum amount of time the git command will be cached.  No matter what, the output of git
commands for a given repository are cleared when new commits are pushed to the server and the post-receive hook is
called.

This caching functionality only works in Redmine 1.2.x+ and ChiliProject v2.x+ -- while this plugin is compatible
with ChiliProject 1.x the caching functionality is not.

Important note: If using *mysql* for your database, you must make sure that the **max_allowed_packet** size is set (in, e.g., /etc/my.cnf) to be at least as
large as the value you specify for **Max Cache Element Size** above.  If you do not do this, you are likely to get very strange failures of the web
server.  Such a setting must be placed in the `[mysqld]` parameter section of this file, for instance:

<pre>
[mysqld]
datadir=/var/lib/mysql
socket=/var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
user=mysql
symbolic-links=0
max_allowed_packet=32M
</pre>

The above example should allow **Max Cache Element Size** == 32M.

## SELinux Configuration for Redmine

This plugin can be configured to run with SELinux.  We have included a rakefile in tasks/selinux.rake to assist
with installing with SELinux.  You should start by editing init.rb and migrating as described above.  Then, you
can execute one of the SELinux rake tasks (from the Redmine root).  For instance, the simplest option installs
a SELinux configuration for both Redmine and the redmine_git_hosting plugin:

    rake selinux:install RAILS_ENV=production

This will generate the redmine_git_hosting binaries in ./bin, install a SELinux policy for these binaries (called
redmine_git.pp), then install a complete context for Redmine as follows:

**(1)** Most of Redmine will be marked with "public_content_rw_t".

**(2)** The dispatch files in Rails.root/public/dispatch.* will be marked with "httpd_sys_script_exec_t"

**(3)** The redmine_git_hosting binaries in Rails.root/vendor/plugins/redmine_git_hosting/bin will be labeled
with "httpd_redmine_git_script_exec_t", which has been crafted to allow the sudo behavior required by these
binaries.

Note that this rake file has additional options.  For instance, you can specify multiple Redmine roots with regular
expressions (not globbed expressions!) as follows (notice the use of double quotes):

    rake selinux:install RAILS_ENV=production ROOT_PATTERN="/source/.*/redmine"

These additional options are documented in the selinux.rake file.  Under normal operation, you will get one selinux complaint about /bin/touch in
your log each time that you visit the plugin settings page.

Once this plugin is placed under selinux control, four of the redmine_git_hosting settings can
not be modified from the settings page.  They are: 'gitScriptDir', 'gitUser', 'gitoliteIdentityFile', and
'gitoliteIdentityPublicKeyFile'.  The plugin settings page will make this clear.  One way to
modify these options is to remove the old scripts, refresh the setting page, change options, then reinstall scripts.  Specifically, you can
remove scripts with:

    rake selinux:redmine_git_hosting:remove_scripts RAILS_ENV=production

Scripts and selinux policy/tags can be reinstalled with:

    rake selinux:redmine_git_hosting:install RAILS_ENV=production

Alternately, you can change the frozen parameters by altering them in the init.rb file and resetting the options to the defaults via:

    rake redmine_git_hosting:restore_defaults RAILS_ENV=production

One final comment: The selinux policy exists in binary form as selinux/redmine_git.pp. Should this policy
need to be rebuilt, an additional rake task exists which will build the policy from selinux/redmine_git.te:

    rake selinux:redmine_git_hosting:build_policy RAILS_ENV=productinon

This task can be followed by the selinux:install task.

The rakefile and SELinux configuration has been primarily tested on Redhat Enterprise Linux version 6.x
with apache and fcgi. Other configurations may require slight tweaking.

## Copyright & License

This plugin is based largely on the Gitosis plugin by Jan Schulz-Hofen for http://plan.io. Several updates/fixes
were provided by Github users : untoldwind, tingar and ericpaulbishop. These updates were merged together and
expanded upon by Eric Bishop to create this more comprehensive Git Hosting plugin.

Copyright (c) 2013 Nicolas Rodriguez (nrodriguez@jbox-web.com) MIT License.

Copyright (c) 2011 John Kubiatowicz (kubitron@cs.berkeley.edu) MIT License.

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Eric Bishop (ericpaulbishop@gmail.com) MIT License.

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Jan Schulz-Hofen, ROCKET RENTALS GmbH (http://www.rocket-rentals.de). MIT License.
