---
title: Release 0.4.3
layout: post-release-note
category: releases-notes
permalink: /releases-notes/release-0.4.3.html

status: obsolete
download_zip: https://github.com/kubitron/redmine_git_hosting/archive/0.4.3x.zip
download_tar: https://github.com/kubitron/redmine_git_hosting/archive/0.4.3x.tar.gz
---

This release includes feature enhancements and bug fixes.

This release includes a complete rewrite of the update_repository() functionality with an eye toward better resilience.

This code will automatically recover from a variety of weird failure modes which originally could occur.
Further, execution of fetch_changesets will resynchronize the gitolite.conf file, fixing any inconsistencies that might have crept into this file.
Co-existence of Redmine-managed and non-redmine-managed repositories in the gitolite.conf file is supported. Some specific things that will be resynched :

* Missing keys will be added and unused keys will be removed from the keydir directory.
* Entries in gitolite.conf will be updated with new path information as necessary.
* If proper setting is selected, orphan repo entries will be removed from gitolite.conf file, and the repositories themselves will be moved to the new recycle bin in the gitolite homedirectory.
* Hooks will be checked and repaired as necessary.

This code is now explicitly compatible with Redmine 1.3-stable.

* Added user-edit screen to allow administrator to examine and edit users keys.
* Git Server parameter now supports a port specification.
* Other bug fuxes: mirrors now report status properly.
